docs: add remote MCP tool names to migration guide comparison table (#467)
dynatrace-oss/dynatrace-mcp: docs/remote-mcp-migration.md

# Migrating from Local to Remote Dynatrace MCP Server

> Dynatrace now offers an official **Remote MCP Server** that runs directly in your Dynatrace environment — no local setup, no Node.js, and no `npx` required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynatrace now offers an official **Remote MCP Server** that runs directly in your Dynatrace SaaS environment — no local setup, no Node.js, and no `npx` required.
```

| Time series novelty detection               | `execute_davis_analyzer`             | `timeseries-novelty-detection`       |
| Find documents                              | —                                    | `find-documents`                     |
| Find troubleshooting guides                 | —                                    | `find-troubleshooting-guides`        |
| Create workflow for notification            | `create_workflow_for_notification`   | —                                    |
| Make workflow public                        | `make_workflow_public`               | —                                    |
| Send Slack message                          | `send_slack_message`                 | —                                    |
| Send email                                  | `send_email`                         | —                                    |
| Send event                                  | `send_event`                         | —                                    |
| Create Dynatrace Notebook                   | `create_dynatrace_notebook`          | —                                    |

> > **Legend:** — = not available (as of the 2026-04-13). The remote MCP server is actively developed; check the [official documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/dynatrace-mcp) for the latest tool list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Legend:** — = not available (as of the 2026-04-13) - check the [official documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/dynatrace-mcp) for the latest tool list.
```

> > **Legend:** — = not available (as of the last documentation update). The remote MCP server is actively developed; check the [official documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/dynatrace-mcp) for the latest tool list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Legend:** — = not available (as of the 2026-04-13). The remote MCP server is actively developed; check the [official documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/dynatrace-mcp) for the latest tool list.
```

## Migration Steps

### 1. Obtain a Platform Token

> > **Authentication note:** The local MCP server offers a better authentication experience today — it supports the OAuth Authorization Code Flow, which opens a browser window so you never need to manage tokens manually. The remote MCP server currently requires a Platform Token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The local MCP server currently offers a better authentication experience via OAuth Authorization Code Flow (via your logged in Browser session). The remote MCP server currently requires a Platform Token.
```

Create a Platform Token in your Dynatrace environment with the required scopes. In addition to tool-specific scopes, the remote MCP server requires:

> 
> - `mcp-gateway:servers:invoke`
> - `mcp-gateway:servers:read`
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- `mcp-gateway:servers:invoke`
- `mcp-gateway:servers:read`

as well as tool-specific scopes (see [Server and server tools](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/dynatrace-mcp#server)):

- `storage:buckets:read` as well as `storage:events:read`, `storage:logs:read`, ... - see [Grail permissions table](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/platform/grail/organize-data/assign-permissions-in-grail#grail-permissions-table)
- `davis:analyzers:read`, `davis:analyzers:execute`
- `document:documents:read`
- `davis-copilot:nl2dql:execute`, `davis-copilot:dql2nl:execute` and `davis-copilot:conversations:execute`

```
